w-12273311-Reuse types first draft (#235)
mulesoft/docs-dataweave: modules/ROOT/pages/dataweave-type-reuse-java-classes.adoc

= Reusing Types from Java Classes
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> Use the import directive with the `java!` prefix when loading a Java class. The prefix `java!` tells DataWeave to use the Java module loader. When loaded, you can call constructors, variables, and functions, see xref:dataweave-cookbook-java-methods.adoc[]. The class type is also available. This is exposed with the type name `Class`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the import directive with the `java!` prefix when loading a Java class. The prefix `java!` tells DataWeave to use the Java module loader. After loading the module, you can call constructors, variables, and functions (see xref:dataweave-cookbook-java-methods.adoc[]). The class type is also available. This is exposed with the type name `Class`.
```

Reviewer: Question about this:
"The class type is also available. This is exposed with the type name `Class`."

What does "This" in "This is exposed" refer to? The class type?

Reviewer: Are we saying that the type of the Java class is exposed through the type name `Class`?

Reviewer: generally, "this" should alway modify something

Author: Yes, we are!

> Use the import directive with the `java!` prefix when loading a Java class. The prefix `java!` tells DataWeave to use the Java module loader. When the module is loaded, you can call constructors, variables, and functions (see xref:dataweave-cookbook-java-methods.adoc[]). The class type is also available. DataWeave exposes the type of the Java class with the type name `Class`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the import directive with the `java!` prefix when loading a Java class. The prefix `java!` tells DataWeave to use the Java module loader. After the module loads, you can call constructors, variables, and functions (see xref:dataweave-cookbook-java-methods.adoc[]). The class type is also available. DataWeave exposes the type of the Java class with the type name `Class`.
```

Author: Reworded.

> Java classes are mapped to DataWeave types following the table present in xref:dataweave-formats-java.adoc#java-value-mapping[Java Value Mapping].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Java classes are mapped to DataWeave types listed in  xref:dataweave-formats-java.adoc#java-value-mapping[Java Value Mapping].
```

> If a Java class is not present in the table, DataWeave treats it as a JavaBean and maps it as an `Object` type with its fields being the properties name of the Java class and its corresponding mapped DataWeave type. In this case, DataWeave takes all properties from the Java getters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a Java class is not present in the table, DataWeave treats the class as a `JavaBean` and maps it as an `Object` type with its fields being the properties name of the Java class and its corresponding mapped DataWeave type. In this case, DataWeave takes all properties from the Java getters.
```

JavaBean -> `JavaBean`

What is meant by "being the properties name of the Java class" here?

Reviewer: Is the class mapped to a _DataWeave_ `Object` type? And the fields in that object match the names of the properties in the Java class?

Reviewer: When we say, "In this case," are we suggesting there are other cases?

> If a Java class is not present in the table, DataWeave treats the class as a `JavaBean` and maps it to an `Object` type with its fields being the properties name of the Java class and its corresponding mapped DataWeave type. In this case, DataWeave takes all properties from the Java getters.

Author: 1. Is the class mapped to a DataWeave Object type? And the fields in that object match the names of the properties in the Java class? If so, could we say something like this?
In which case we can rephrase it as:
"... maps it to a DataWeave `Object` type. The fields in that object match the names of the properties in the Java class."

2. When we say, "In this case," what case are we referring to, and are we suggesting there are other cases? Are we talking about the example or something more general?

@TomoDC

Reviewer 3: For 1. I would suggest something like "... maps it to a DataWeave Object type. The keys in that object match the names of the properties in the Java class and their values correspond to the DataWeave type that matches the property class."

For 2. Means the following example.

> xref:dataweave-formats-java.adoc#class_user[Product Class]:

Reviewer: How does the linked content relate to the Product class example it's introducing?

Reviewer: I see User and Customer class definitions there.

Author: @TomoDC

Reviewer 3: Hi @dmerlob , @dukesphere , the link xref:dataweave-formats-java.adoc#class_user should be removed, it is not related.

> If a Java class is not present in the table, DataWeave treats the class as a `JavaBean` and maps it to a DataWeave `Object` type. The keys in that object match the names of the properties in the Java class and their values correspond to the DataWeave type that marches the property class. The following example shows how DataWeave takes all properties from the Java getters:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If a Java class is not present in the table, DataWeave treats the class as a `JavaBean` and maps it to a DataWeave `Object` type. The keys in that object match the names of the properties in the Java class and their values correspond to the DataWeave type that matches the property class. The following example shows how DataWeave takes all properties from the Java getters:
```

> If a Java class is not present in the table, DataWeave treats the class as a `JavaBean` and maps it to a DataWeave `Object` type. The keys in that object match the names of the properties in the Java class and their values correspond to the DataWeave type that matches the property class. The following example shows how DataWeave takes all properties from the Java getters:

Reviewer 2: I wonder about "present". specified? defined? listed? included?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a Java class is not present in the table, DataWeave treats the class as `JavaBean` and maps it to a DataWeave `Object` type. The keys in that object match the names of the properties in the Java class and their values correspond to the DataWeave type that matches the property class. The following example shows how DataWeave takes all properties from the Java getters:
```

Reviewer 2: This is a mouthful - any way to simplify?

> The keys in that object match the names of the properties in the Java class and their values correspond to the DataWeave type that matches the property class.

Author: I like the options. Will go with _specified_. 

Indef art deleted.

----
package org.mycompany;

public class Product {
    private String name;
    private int price;
    
    public Product(String name, int price) {
        this.name = name;
        this.price = price;
    }
    
    public String getName() {return name;}
    public void setName(String name) {this.name = name;}
    public int getPrice() {return price;}
    public void setPrice(int price) {this.price = price;}
}
----

Loading the type for this Java class has the same effect as declaring this DataWeave type:

----
type Class = { name?: String | Null, price?: Number | Null }
----

> .DataWeave Script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.DataWeave Script:
```

> Notice that the import directive lacks a `from` and instead uses the type `Class` prefix `Product::`. The prefix enables more declarative use of the type and avoids collisions  with any other `Class` types that are imported:

Reviewer 2: a `from` **directive**?

In general, don't use the article when referring to the element as a noun. So either:
a `from` something 
or simply
`from`

Author: Indef art deleted.

> Notice that the import directive lacks a `from` and instead uses the type `Class` prefix `Product::`. The prefix enables more declarative use of the type and avoids collisions  with any other `Class` types that are imported:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Notice that the import directive lacks a `from` and instead uses the type `Class` prefix `Product::`. The prefix enables more declarative use of the type and avoids collisions with any other `Class` types that are imported:
```

Author: Reworded.

----
%dw 2.0
output json
import java!org::mycompany::Product
 
var aBook: Product::Class = {name: "Learn DW", price: 123}
fun description(p: Product::Class) = "The product: $(p.name), costs: $(p.price)"
 
type Order = {
    product: Product::Class,
    date: LocalDateTime
}
---
{
    a: Product::new("DW lang", 321) is Product::Class,
    b: description(aBook),
    c: {product: aBook, date: |2022-12-18T14:00:00|} is Order
}
----

> The type `Product::Class` is used here as any other type in DataWeave. Creating a DataWeave object by calling the function `Product::new` (that calls the constructor of the Java class) also matches the type `Product::Class`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example uses the type `Product::Class` as any other type in DataWeave. Creating a DataWeave object by calling the function `Product::new` (which calls the constructor of the Java class) also matches the type `Product::Class`.
```

Avoid "is used here"

> Note that the import directive is written without using `from` so the usage of the type `Class` needs the prefix `Product::`. This allows the use of the types to be more declarative and to avoid collision of other `Class` types that can be imported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the `import` directive is written without using `from`, so the type `Class` requires the prefix `Product::`. Using this prefix allows the use of the types to be more declarative and to avoid collision with any other imported `Class` types:
```

> The example uses the type `Product::Class` as any other type in DataWeave. Creating a DataWeave object by calling the function `Product::new` (which calls the constructor of the Java class) also matches the type `Product::Class`.
> Notice that the import directive lacks a `from` and instead uses the type `Class` prefix `Product::`. The prefix enables more declarative use of the type and avoids collisions  with any other `Class` types that are imported:
> 
> .Output:
> ----
> {
>     a: true,
>     b: "The product: Learn DW, costs: 123",
>     c: true
> }
> ----

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.Output:
----
{
    a: true,
    b: "The product: Learn DW, costs: 123",
    c: true
}
----

The example uses the type `Product::Class` as any other type in DataWeave. Creating a DataWeave object by calling the function `Product::new` (which calls the constructor of the Java class) also matches the type `Product::Class`.
Notice that the import directive lacks a `from` and instead uses the type `Class` prefix `Product::`. The prefix enables more declarative use of the type and avoids collisions  with any other `Class` types that are imported.
```

Maybe the Output could be before the paragraph? (as in the other pages)
